apps/mcp-endpoint-shield/claude-cli-hooks/README.md, before:

# Akto Guardrails for Claude CLI

Validate your prompts against Akto AI Guardrails before they're sent to Claude.

## Setup

### 1. Download the plugin

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.claude/hooks
cd ~/.claude/hooks
```

### 2. Configure environment

Add the following environment variables to your shell configuration file (e.g. `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`, or `~/.profile`):

```bash
# Add these to ~/.zshrc
export AKTO_DATA_INGESTION_URL="ingestion-service-url"
export AKTO_SYNC_MODE="true" # Set to false if you want to allow prompts if guardrails blocks them but still send them to Claude
```

Then reload your shell configuration (or open a new terminal) before running Claude Code:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

### 3. Add hook to Claude CLI

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
    "hooks": {
        "UserPromptSubmit": [
            {
                "hooks": [
                    {
                        "type": "command",
                        "command": "python3 ~/.claude/hooks/validate-prompt.py",
                        "timeout": 10
                    }
                ]
            }
        ],
        "Stop": [
            {
                "hooks": [
                    {
                        "type": "command",
                        "command": "python3 ~/.claude/hooks/validate-response.py",
                        "timeout": 10
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### 4. Restart Claude CLI

```bash
claude
```

Commit message:

modified cursor and claude agent hooks

apps/mcp-endpoint-shield/claude-cli-hooks/README.md, after:

# Akto Guardrails for Claude CLI

Validate your prompts against Akto AI Guardrails before they're sent to Claude.

## Setup

### 1. Download the plugin

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.claude/hooks
cd ~/.claude/hooks
```

### 2. Configure environment

Add the following environment variables to your shell configuration file (e.g. `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`, or `~/.profile`):

```bash
# Add these to ~/.zshrc
export AKTO_DATA_INGESTION_URL="ingestion-service-url"
export AKTO_SYNC_MODE="true" # Set to false if you want to allow prompts if guardrails blocks them but still send them to Claude
export MODE="argus" # Options: "argus" (default) or "atlas"
export DEVICE_ID="" # Optional: Custom device ID for atlas mode (auto-generated if not provided)
```

#### Mode Configuration

- **argus** (default): Standard mode using configured `CLAUDE_API_URL` or defaults to `https://api.anthropic.com`
- **atlas**: Uses device-specific routing with format `https://{deviceId}.claudecli.ai-agent` and includes additional metadata tags:
  - `ai-agent=cursor`
  - `source=ENDPOINT`

**Device ID for Atlas Mode:**
- If `DEVICE_ID` environment variable is set, it will be used directly
- If `DEVICE_ID` is not set, the device ID is automatically generated from your machine's MAC address and cached
- The auto-generated device ID is lowercase with no dashes or colons

Then reload your shell configuration (or open a new terminal) before running Claude Code:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

### 3. Add hook to Claude CLI

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
    "hooks": {
        "UserPromptSubmit": [
            {
                "hooks": [
                    {
                        "type": "command",
                        "command": "python3 ~/.claude/hooks/validate-prompt.py",
                        "timeout": 10
                    }
                ]
            }
        ],
        "Stop": [
            {
                "hooks": [
                    {
                        "type": "command",
                        "command": "python3 ~/.claude/hooks/validate-response.py",
                        "timeout": 10
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### 4. Restart Claude CLI

```bash
claude
```
